# CS340 Project Idea
## Name: Jack Skupien
## github: jskupien24
When I started thinking of apps that I may find useful in my everyday life, I went to the place where I do the best brainstorming: to the grocery store; however, I seemed to have come on the wrong day because everything I found expired within the coming days. I barely even had time to brainstorm because I was busy trying to plan out my next week to ensure that I could use each thing before it expired. Like most college students and other folks getting used to living on their own, I struggle to find the balance between having a stocked pantry/fridge, while simultaneously trying to avoid overspending on groceries that may only be useful for a few recipes. My project idea would seek to solve this problem for these people like me, but also for people who may just want to keep a more detailed inventory and a more organized diet. Furthermore, this app could tap into the Blue Apron and Hello Fresh types of markets, which are largely comprised of busy adults that do not have the time or knowledge to be able to prepare a meal at the end of a long day and busy parents that struggle to keep up with the everyday task of feeding their young children.
With my app, you could keep track of the things in your fridge and pantry and receive reminders when certain items are about to expire. Additionally, it could be used as a dieting app, recommending future grocery purchases that may align with a particular diet, and could even help you track your nutritional intakes (Calories, carbs, etc.). Another problem I have encountered is knowing exactly what a well-rounded diet may require. For example, I discovered this summer that even though I eat healthy and clean, my cholesterol was higher than it should have been because I was not including enough fiber in my vegetarian diet. This app could use machine learning to learn about your diet and find things that may be lacking (potassium, fiber, iron, etc.). When developing this idea, I also considered my sister, whose life has always been complicated by celiac disease, an inability to eat anything containing gluten. People with celiac and other dietary restrictions may benefit from the use of this app, since it can be hard to remember necessary pieces of their diet.
Finally, if there was enough resulting time, I think it would be super cool if I could add a data-scraping algorithm that could find online recipes for you based on your desired diet and current stock. In the past, I have only ever coded machine learning and data scraping algorithms in python, so I would most likely start there with this project; however, I have never been able to code IOS apps or use swift, which I think could be a really cool way to challenge myself and learn a new skill, so if there was even more resulting time I think coding IOS apps could be a really useful skill to be able to put on my resume.
