# Project Idea
## Summary of Project and Features
My project idea is a hiking trail recommendation generator. This application would use web scraping to pull data from [this website](https://hikinginthesmokys.com/). Users would be able to input their desired trail difficulty, length, location, and features. Inputs for difficulty would include easy, medium and hard. Inputs for location would include Gatlinburg / Mt. Leconte, Newfound Gap / Clingmans Dome, Cades Cove / Townsend, Elkmont, Cherokee / Deep Creek, Balsam Mountain / Big Creek / Cataloochee / Fontana Lake, and Greenbrier / Cosby. Inputs for features would include waterfalls, scenic views, streams, wildflowers, solitude, and history. This application would recommend a few trails to the user based on their input. Users would have accounts in the system, and would be able to log their hike and post reviews as well. The application would analyze information such as frequency and positive vs negative reviews to provide the following statistics: popularity of hikes being taken, popularity of hike by location, most highly reviewed hikes, etc.

## What problems does this project solve?
This application would be a straightforward  way for people who are new to the area, or for tourists, to locate a hike that meets their desires and stays within their physical or limitations. It would also be a good way to expose people to lesser known hiking trails in the Smokies, and possibly allow for the more popular trails to be less crowded. In doing so, this application could help preserve the environment, reducing the foot traffic and amount of trash left on the more popular trails like Mt. Leconte. This application could also help to reduce risk of personal injury. Inexperienced hikers are often overly ambitious and might attempt a hike that is too physically strenuous for them. This application would combat that by using the difficulty rating and length parameters. Newer hikers also tend to underestimate the amount of food and water they will need. This application would generate a list of items to bring based on length, difficulty and features to prevent this.

## What technology would this project use?
This application would take input from users and therefore be customizable to user-specific needs. It would use Python packages such as BeautifulSoup and Selenium to do web scraping, Pandas to hold, manipulate, and analyze the data, and matplotlib to analyze the data. It would use a Python framework such as Flask for development.

## Who would use this project?
The National Park Service might buy this solution to promote exposure to the Smokies and its less popular trails. Outdoor companies such as REI Co-op, or more locally Mast General Store also might be interested in buying this solution to encourage people to get outdoors. Both new and experienced hikers could use this application.
